[[Category:Web theme]]

== Intent ==

[[Web programming]] in [[Language:PHP]]

== Languages ==

* [[Language:PHP]]
* [[Language:HTML]]
* [[Language:CSS]]

== Technologies ==

* [[:Category:Web browser]]

== Features ==

* [[101feature:Tree structure]]
* [[101feature:Type-driven query]]
* [[101feature:Type-driven transformation]]
* [[101feature:Distribution]]
* [[101feature:Exploration]]
* [[101feature:Persistence]]
* [[101feature:Attribute editing]]
* [[101feature:Web UI]]

== Motivation ==

Currently the most popular and complete [[web programming]] [[:Category:Language|language]], which is focused on the creation of web resources - is [[Language:PHP]]. Its popularity is due to a number of advantages that it gives the developer. Code written in this [[:Category:Language|language]], does not look bulky and basic scenarios are created in a few lines. 

[[Language:PHP]] is embedded in ordinary [[Language:HTML]]-code page, which provides a high level of flexibility in its use, and security is provided by [[Language:PHP]] -stealth insertions in the browser (displayed normal [[Language:HTML]]). [[:Category:Language|Language]]allows you to create dynamic pages that open up great opportunities for web design and programming.

Due to the simplicity of the code, script execution takes place at a fairly high speed, since the nature of [[:Category:Language|language]] can be described as an interpreter translating (the script is processing and displaying its result in a visual form). Speed ​​of processing scenarios is ideal for applications of any complexity.

In this [[101implementation:PHP]] implementation, will be described basic functions and methods of [[Language:PHP]] language. 



== Illustration ==

=== Architecture ===

All requests, which are executing in current [[Language:PHP]] implementation are going through index.php file. 

Lets have a look on it:

1) On first step we connection configuration file and file with functions

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
include_once('lib/config.php');
include_once('lib/functions.php');
</syntaxhighlight>

2) Next in file you can see part, which will catch all actions. This mean, that all POST queries (and queries that are not required display something to user) will be executed, and page will be redirected back.  
<syntaxhighlight lang="php">

if (get_input('type') == 'action'){
	switch(get_input('action')){
		case 'company':
			include('actions/company.php');
			back();
			break;
		case 'department':
		…………

</syntaxhighlight>

3) Includes part. 

Includes header and in the end of file footer. This HTML code, that will be the same for all pages (it includes [[Language:CSS]] and [[Language:JavaScript]] files).

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
include_once('template/header.php');
……
include_once('template/footer.php');
</syntaxhighlight>

In the middle located code, that will catch “section” variable. And display need content to user

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
switch(get_input('section')){
	case 'employee':
		$eid = get_input('eid');
		$employeeInfo = getEmployees($eid, true);
		include('template/employee.php');
		break;
		……..
</syntaxhighlight>

=== PHP and Mysql connection ===

For more details about Mysql, please read [[101implementation:mySql]]

[[Language:PHP]] has build-in functions for working with database. Lets have a look more detailed on them.

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
// /lib/functions.php
$db = mysql_connect(DB_HOST, DB_USER, DB_PASSWORD);
if (!$db) {
    	die('Db connection error: ' . mysql_error());
}
$dbSelected = mysql_select_db(DB_NAME, $db);
return $dbSelected;
</syntaxhighlight>

On this example:

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
$db = mysql_connect(DB_HOST, DB_USER, DB_PASSWORD);
</syntaxhighlight>

is function for connecting with [[Technology:MySQL]] database, taking as parameters [[Technology:MySQL]]host, Username and password. Look <ref name=’[1]’>http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.mysql-connect.php</ref> for more information

After we initialized connection, we will use it as default in all operations with database in this implementation. 

List of [[Technology:MySQL]] functions that were used in [[Language:PHP]] implementation.

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
mysql_select_db(); select used Database name;
mysql_query(); // execution of Mysql query;
mysql_fetch_assoc(); // return query result as associative array;

// get company information
function getCompany(){
	//Execute query
	$result = mysql_query('SELECT * FROM company');
	
	//get DB table as Array
	$data = array();
	while($row = mysql_fetch_assoc($result)){
		$data[] = $row; 
	}
	
	return $data;
}

</syntaxhighlight>


=== Feature implementation ===

Cut salary for all employees or for all department, making using [[Technology:MySQL]] queries: 

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
function cutCompanySalary($did = 0){
	
// Prepare query for cutting the salary
	$query = 'UPDATE employee SET salary = salary/2';
	$query .= " WHERE cid = 1"; // set Id of company – in our case we have just one company
	
	if ($did != 0){ // if we have department ID to cut, then add department id selector
		$query .= ' AND did='.$did;
	}
	
//Execute mysql query
	if (mysql_query($query)){
		return true;
	}else{
		return false;
	}
	
}
</syntaxhighlight>


== Usage ==

This implementation required to have [[Technology:MySQL]]-database.
Can be used ''company.sql'' and ''sampleCompany.sql'' of [[101implementation:mySql]] for this project.

For run this implementation, you should have [[Technology:Apache_HTTP_Server]] installed, with supporting of [[Technology:PHP]] and [[Technology:MySQL]] server installed. 

* download and install [[101implementation:mySql]]
* copy all files from [[101implementation:PHP]] to your server folder
* edit /lib/config.php file and set your Database credentials. 


== Contributors ==

* {{101contributor|Lyzun Oleksandr|developer}}
